Narrator:
THEY'RE SWEET.
THEY'RE SOCIAL.
THEY'RE SO NICE.
THEY'RE GIRLS.
AM I DEAD YET?
BUT GROWING UP GIRL
ISN'T ALL THAT IT SEEMS.
THEY WILL PLAY SOMETIMES
OR HAVE THAT FEMININE SIDE.
BUT THEY HAVE A STATEMENT.
Narrator:
TODAY NEW INSIGHTS
INTO OUR DAUGHTERS...
WE KNOW LITTLE GIRLS
WHO FEEL THAT THEY HAVE
AN AFTER-SCHOOL JOB,
FOR EXAMPLE,
ARE MUCH LESS PRONE
TO EARLY PREGNANCY.
...AND OURSELVES.
SHOULD I DO TOUGH LOVE AND SAY,
"STOP CRYING, GET OVER THIS?"
- Narrator:
BRAZELTON ON PARENTING.
-I WOULDN'T DO IT.
( theme music playing )
IN RECENT YEARS, SCIENCE
HAS MADE REMARKABLE DISCOVERIES
ABOUT THE LINK
BETWEEN SEX AND BEHAVIOR.
AND NOWHERE HAS THIS
BEEN MORE STRIKING
THAN IN UNDERSTANDING GIRLS.
RESEARCH HAS SHOWN THAT
AS EARLY AS A FEW MONTHS,
GIRLS AND BOYS SHOW
COMPLETELY DIFFERENT BEHAVIOR
WHEN IT COMES TO REACTING
TO THEIR PARENTS.
AND AS GIRLS GROW,
THE DIFFERENCES BECOME
MORE DISTINCT.
WHY IS THIS SO,
AND WHAT PART
DOES BIOLOGY
VERSUS SOCIETY PLAY?
WE'RE GOING TO EXAMINE
THESE QUESTIONS AND MORE
AS WE EXPLORE
THE SPECIAL WORLD OF GIRLS.
WE GOT CLOSER
TO TWO-FIFTHS,
TWO-THIRDS--
Brazelton:
A TYPICAL FOURTH-GRADE
CLASSROOM,
AND A PERFECT LABORATORY
FOR OUR STUDIES.
- THIS ONE WAS SO EASY.
WE HAD IN LIKE TWO SECONDS.
- I KNOW.
THESE GIRLS ARE
9 AND 10 YEARS OLD,
AN AGE OF TRANSITION
FROM CHILD TO ADOLESCENCE.
OH, MY GOSH!
IT'S AN AGE WHEN STEREOTYPES
CAN REALLY BE TESTED.
AND THE FIRST:
THE BRAIN ITSELF.
THIS PIECE, I KNOW--
Jennifer Colucci:
STEREOTYPICALLY, BOYS
ARE PERCEIVED TO BE STRONGER
IN THE MATH
AND SCIENCE AREAS...
I TOLD YOU
I KNEW HOW TO DO IT!
Colucci:
...WHERE GIRLS ARE
PERCEIVED TO BE STRONGER
IN READING
AND LANGUAGE ARTS AREAS.
"THE CHILDREN FELT AS IF THEY
HAD LEFT THEIR INSIDES BEHIND."
Brazelton:
GIRLS DO TEND TO VERBALIZE MORE
IN PROBLEM-SOLVING PLAY,
AND, STRIKINGLY, THEY HAVE
SHARPER HEARING THAN BOYS,
WHICH MAY BE NATURE'S WAY
TO HELP WITH COMMUNICATION.
THAT'S IT.
BUT SCIENCE HAS FOUND
NO OTHER
GENETIC PREDISPOSITION
TO WORDS VERSUS NUMBERS.
JUST USING FIFTHS HERE...
Colucci:
IN MY EXPERIENCE,
I HAVE SEEN GIRLS EXCEL
IN ALL AREAS
OF THE CURRICULUM.
I HAVE GIRLS THAT ARE
SCIENTIFIC AND METICULOUS
IN THEIR CALCULATIONS
AND EXTREMELY AGGRESSIVE
PROBLEM-SOLVERS
WHO CONTINUALLY CHALLENGE
AND MOTIVATE THEMSELVES.
I HAVE
A SPELLING TEST.
Brazelton:
AND HOW ABOUT PERSONALITY?
ONE EIGHTY-TWO.
Colucci:
IN CLASSROOMS,
GIRLS ARE PERCEIVED TO BE,
UM, PASSIVE, AND A FLURRY
OF BOYS' HANDS,
I GUESS,
IS THE STEREOTYPIC IMAGE
OF THE TRADITIONAL
CLASSROOM.
Brazelton:
IT'S CLEAR THAT HIGHER
TESTOSTERONE LEVELS
INCREASE COMPETITIVENESS,
BUT HERE,
A SIMPLE SOLUTION CAN LEVEL
THE PLAYING FIELD.
"MYTH" IS A GOOD WORD,
OF BOYS RAISING HANDS
MORE FREQUENTLY THAN GIRLS.
IT HAS BEEN WRITTEN ABOUT
OVER THE LAST DECADE.
THERE'S A TERM
CALLED "WAIT TIME,"
AND OUR TEACHERS ARE TRAINED
TO GIVE AT LEAST SIX SECONDS
FOR EVERY QUESTION,
AND THEN TO CALL ON STUDENTS.
AND IF WE TRY TO CALL
ON ALL CHILDREN EQUALLY,
GIVE ALL CHILDREN AN OPPORTUNITY
IN WHICH TO SHINE,
THAT STEREOTYPE
SHOULD NOT BE THERE.
( shouting, laughing )
Brazelton:
SPEAKING OF PLAYING,
RESEARCH HAS SHOWN
THAT BOYS AND GIRLS HAVE
DISTINCT PLAY PATTERNS--
BOYS MORE COMPETITIVE,
GIRLS MORE COOPERATIVE.
BUT WHEN
YOU PUT THEM TOGETHER--
Michael Cavallaro:
ONE TIME, MAYBE WHEN
THE GIRLS ARE GROWIN' UP,
THE PARENTS ARE TRYING TO GET
THEM TO BE LESS COMPETITIVE,
AND THEY'RE LED TO BELIEVE
THEY'RE NOT AS GOOD AS BOYS,
BUT AS A P.E. TEACHER,
I SEE, AT THIS AGE,
A LOT OF THE GIRLS ARE
JUST AS GOOD AS THE BOYS.
WE JUST FINISHED
PHYSICAL FITNESS TESTING.
AS A MATTER OF FACT,
THE TOP, UH, PERSON
DOIN' PULL-UPS
WAS A GIRL.
Brazelton:
THAT DOES CHANGE
BECAUSE THEIR BODIES CHANGE.
BUT WHEN YOU GIVE
THEM A CHANCE,
WHAT ABOUT
BEYOND THE BODY?
Cavallaro:
NOW WE HAVE CO-ED CLASSES.
THEY HAVE GREATER OPPORTUNITIES
TO PLAY SPORTS,
AND THE GIRLS ARE GETTING
GREATER CONFIDENCE
IN THEMSELVES
BY PLAYIN' SPORTS.
YOU KNOW,
THEY'RE NOT AFRAID TO RUN.
THEY'RE MORE COMPETITIVE THAN
THEY HAVE BEEN IN THE PAST.
Kelly's mom:
THE GIRLS WANNA BE OUT THERE.
THEY WANNA SAY, "THIS IS ME.
I'M A FORCE
TO BE RECKONED WITH."
IT'S, LIKE, ENCOURAGING.
THE GIRLS ARE READY
TO TAKE IT ON AND, YOU KNOW--
AND, YOU KNOW, THEY DO--
THEY WILL PLAY, SOMETIMES,
OR, YOU KNOW,
HAVE THAT FEMININE SIDE.
BUT THEY HAVE
A STATEMENT.
AT LEAST,
MY DAUGHTER SEEMS TO.
( chuckles )
( giggling )
Brazelton:
GIRLS AND BOYS
BOTH GENERALLY TEND
TO SOCIALIZE
WITH THEIR OWN--
UNTIL PUBERTY,
WHEN IT'S
A WHOLE DIFFERENT STORY.
Kelly's mom:
UP TO LAST YEAR, KELLY WAS
ON AN EVEN PLANE, LIKE
IT DIDN'T MAKE A DIFFERENCE
WHETHER YOU WERE
A GIRL OR A BOY.
I'M GONNA COMPETE WITH YOU.
EVERYTHING WAS EQUAL.
THERE WASN'T REALLY, UH,
SEX INVOLVED WITH IT.
BUT NOW THIS YEAR
I SEE A LITTLE BIT OF
THE INTERACTION STARTING.
THAT'S A LITTLE BIT
OF THE LIKING
AND BE AWARE OF,
"THEY ARE THE OPPOSITE SEX."
THEY WANNA FLIRT.
THEY WANNA SAY,
"I THINK THIS ONE LIKES ME."
- DO YOU LIKE JOHN?
- NO!
Brazelton:
AT THIS AGE,
THE BLOSSOMING AWARENESS
AND ATTRACTION TAKE
CHARACTERISTIC FORM.
Colucci:
WE SEE SOME OF THE EARLY
STAGES OF FLIRTING,
BUT AT THIS STAGE,
IT'S CHARACTERISTICALLY
KIND OF NEGATIVE ATTENTION,
WHERE THEY'LL BE, YOU KNOW,
THROWING A BALL
OVER AT A GIRL,
OR A GIRL WOULD BE
KICKING A BOY'S LEG,
OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT,
JUST TO GET THEIR ATTENTION.
Brazelton:
SCIENCE HAS NO GOOD ANSWER
FOR THAT ONE...
THAT'S KELLY'S DESK.
...EXCEPT TO KNOW THAT
IT'S THE BEGINNING
OF A NEW STAGE
IN A LIFELONG JOURNEY
OF DISCOVERING
THE WORLD AND THE SELF--
AS GIRL, YES...
* AND I GET THE BOTTOM... *
...BUT, MORE IMPORTANT,
A UNIQUE
AND THOROUGHLY
COMPLETE PERSON.
JOINING ME TODAY
IS CRYSTAL HOLMES,
OUR INTERNET EXPERT
FROM IBM.
CRYSTAL, WHAT DOES THE INTERNET
OFFER SPECIFICALLY FOR GIRLS?
BERRY, THERE ARE A LOT
OF WONDERFUL SITES.
ONE THAT WE'RE
GONNA LOOK AT TODAY,
SPONSORED BY
MT. HOLYOKE COLLEGE,
HAS SOMETHING FOR GIRLS,
IN TERMS OF MATHEMATICS,
ATHLETICS, THEY ACTUALLY
HAVE ROLE MODELS
THAT YOU CAN GO AND DO
RESEARCH ON, FOR GIRLS.
ALSO, THEY HAVE
A SAMPLING OF RESOURCES
AND SPECIFIC PROGRAMS
FOR GIRLS THAT ARE OFFERED
FROM NUMEROUS COLLEGES
THROUGHOUT THE UNITED STATES.
ANOTHER WEBSITE DESIGNED
SPECIFICALLY FOR GIRLS
IS SPONSORED
BY GIRLS INC.,
AND THIS HAS TIPS
FOR PARENTS AND ADULTS,
AND THEY ALSO HAVE A SPECIAL
WEB SITE JUST FOR GIRLS.
IF WE GO
TO THAT WEB SITE,
WE CAN SEE THAT
THERE ARE ACTIVITIES
DESIGNED JUST FOR THEM.
SO, YES, BARRY, THERE'S
QUITE A BIT OF INFORMATION
DESIGNED JUST FOR GIRLS--
LITTLE GIRLS AND BIG GIRLS,
RIGHT HERE ON THE INTERNET.
AND BARRY, OUR QUESTION TODAY
FROM THE INTERNET
COMES FROM TABITHA
IN PAYNESVILLE, MINNESOTA.
HER QUESTION IS,
"I'M A STAY-AT-HOME MOTHER
WITH ONE LITTLE GIRL.
WHAT CAN I DO TO MAXIMIZE
THE LIMITED TIME
MY HUSBAND HAS TO SPEND
WITH OUR DAUGHTER?
I KNOW THE FATHER-DAUGHTER
RELATIONSHIP IS ESSENTIAL
IN BUILDING
MY DAUGHTER'S SELF-ESTEEM.
DO YOU HAVE
ANY SUGGESTIONS?"
WELL, I THINK
YOU'RE ABSOLUTELY RIGHT.
THE FATHER-DAUGHTER RELATIONSHIP
IS A VERY MAJOR PART
OF A LITTLE GIRL'S FEELINGS
ABOUT HERSELF.
SO, SURE, I'D REINFORCE
THEIR TIMES TOGETHER.
I'D HELP HIM SET UP
SOME TIMES
FOR, UH, THEM TO BE
TOGETHER ALONE, GO OFF TOGETHER,
AND THEN IF YOU USE
THE TELEPHONE TO CALL HER
AND SAY,
"I MISS YOU, I WISH
I COULD BE THERE WITH YOU,"
ALL OF THOSE WOULD HELP.
BUT THERE MAY BE SOMETHING HERE
YOU'RE WORRIED ABOUT
THAT YOU DON'T NEED
TO WORRY ABOUT.
WHEN HE COMES HOME,
DOES SHE REJECT HIM,
TURN AWAY FROM HIM, ACT AS IF
SHE DOESN'T CARE ABOUT HIM?
YOU KNOW, THAT COULD BE
INTERPRETED TWO WAYS.
ONE IS TO TAKE IT
THE WAY IT'S SHOWN,
BUT THE OTHER
IS TO SAY,
"I'VE MISSED YOU
ALL DAY LONG, DADDY,
AND I'M SO GLAD
YOU'RE HOME."
NOBODY WOULD BE LIKELY
TO SEE THAT.
SO, WHAT ABOUT TELLING HIM
THAT THIS IS WHAT IT MEANS?
FOR MORE RESOURCES,
VISIT US ONLINE AT...
TING,
PRESENTED BY
THE PARENTING INSTITUTE
AT pampers.com.
GIRLS HAVE ISSUES THAT ARE
VERY DIFFERENT FROM BOYS.
WITH ME IS DR. JOY BROWN,
PSYCHOLOGIST AND HOST
OF HER OWN RADIO
AND TELEVISION SHOWS.
JOY, IF YOU'RE
A PARENT,
WHAT'S THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
RAISING A BOY AND A GIRL?
I THINK NUMBER ONE IS
THE SENSE OF PHYSICAL FREEDOM.
YOU'VE TALKED
A LOT ABOUT THAT.
EVEN IN THE EYE MOVEMENTS,
WE REALLY ENCOURAGE BOYS
TO VIEW THE ENTIRE WORLD--
- AS THEIR OWN?
- ABSOLUTELY.
WHEREAS, GIRLS STAY
CLOSER TO HOME,
AND IT SEEMS TO ME
THAT VERY EARLY ON,
WE NEED TO ENCOURAGE
LITTLE GIRLS TO BE
PHYSICALLY ACTIVE,
TO VIEW THEMSELVES AS POWERFUL,
AND NOT AT RISK,
AND HAVE A LOT MORE FREEDOM.
DO WE THINK OF LITTLE GIRLS--
I MEAN, LITTLE BOYS
AS SHOWOFFS
AND MASTERING THE WORLD,
AND LITTLE GIRLS AS BEING
SORT OF SECOND RATE?
NOT SO MUCH SECOND RATE,
BUT THAT THE WORLD IS RISKY,
AND THEREFORE THEY CAN'T
NEGOTIATE IT ON THEIR TERMS.
SO THEY HAVE TO BE COMPLIANT,
THEY HAVE TO BE GOOD,
THEY HAVE TO BE ATTRACTIVE,
LITERALLY ATTRACTIVE.
WE HAVE TO GET SOMEONE
TO TAKE CARE OF US,
I DON'T THINK
MEN ARE THE PROBLEM.
THEY'RE THE SOLUTION.
MEN HAVE HAD JUST AS DIFFICULT
A TIME AS WOMEN,
BECAUSE WE'VE REALLY
ALLOWED MEN PHYSICAL OPENNESS.
WE DON'T ALLOW MEN
MUCH EMOTIONAL OPENNESS.
LITTLE BOYS TODAY,
GOING OUT, FEELING THAT--
THERE ARE SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED
DISEASES, THERE'S PREGNANCY--
THERE ARE ALL SORTS OF THINGS
THAT MEN, HISTORICALLY HAVE
BEEN ABLE
TO WALK AWAY FROM,
THAT ARE NO LONGER
ABLE TO WALK AWAY FROM.
WE DON'T WANT
CHILDREN RAISING CHILDREN.
WE CAN TEACH CHILDREN
ABOUT THEIR SEXUALITY.
WE CAN TEACH THEM
ABOUT RESPONSIBILITY.
BUT PART OF THE MISTAKEN
NOTION ABOUT ADOLESCENCE
IS THAT BOYS SEE LIFE
THROUGH A SPERMY GREEN HAZE,
AND IT'S JUST A MATTER OF TIME,
ANYBODY'S A TARGET.
AND LITTLE GIRLS, THEREFORE,
HAVE TO BE THE GATEKEEPERS,
"NO, NO, NO. NO, NO."
THAT IS A RIDICULOUS NOTION
ON SEVERAL FRONTS.
FIRST, IT MEANS
BOYS CAN BE IRRESPONSIBLE,
AND GIRLS DENY
THEIR OWN SEXUALITY.
BUT THE ONLY STUDIES
I'VE EVER SEEN SAY,
LITTLE GIRLS WHO HAVE
AN AFTER-SCHOOL JOB,
FOR EXAMPLE,
ARE MUCH LESS PRONE
TO EARLY PREGNANCY.
SOME WAY TO TAKE CARE
OF THEMSELVES,
AS OPPOSED TO FEEL THAT
THEIR SELF-IMAGE
IS BASED ON ATTRACTING
SOMEBODY ELSE, A BOY.
THEY GO FROM BEING
DADDY'S LITTLE GIRL
TO SOMEBODY'S GIRLFRIEND,
TO SOMEBODY'S WIFE,
TO SOMEBODY'S MOTHER.
THE EARLIER ON WE TEACH
BOYS AND GIRLS TO BE SOMEBODY,
WE'VE GOT
BALANCED KIDS.
THE THING YOU SAY, TO ME,
THAT I WOULD WANT
TO REINFORCE TO PARENTS
OF YOUNG CHILDREN WOULD BE,
IF YOU VALUE A LITTLE GIRL
FOR HER PERSONALITY,
FOR HER TEMPERAMENT,
FOR WHO SHE IS,
SHE'S GONNA BE SO SECURE,
SHE'S NOT GONNA HAVE TO WORRY
ABOUT ATTRACTING EVERYBODY.
WELL, IT WILL ALSO GIVE HER
SPECIFIC-- HELP HER TO DEVELOP
COMPETENCE,
AS WELL AS CONFIDENCE.
UM, MOST PARENTS-- I THINK
YOU'RE ON THE MONEY HERE.
IF A KID COMES IN AND SAYS,
"MOMMY, DO YOU LIKE MY PICTURE?"
EVERY GOOD PARENT SAYS,
"IT'S WONDERFUL."
THAT'S THE WRONG ANSWER!
THE RIGHT ANSWER IS,
"DO YOU LIKE YOUR PICTURE?"
AND IT'S SOMETHING
THAT DOESN'T OCCUR TO US.
IF WE GIVE OUR CHILDREN
A SENSE OF SELF-RELIANCE,
THAT WHAT THEY ARE IS OKAY,
AND THE KID WILL THEN SAY,
"YEAH, I LIKE IT," OR,
"NO, IT'S NOT MY BEST,"
THAT WE LOSE THAT SENSE--
BECAUSE OF OUR IDEALIZED NOTION
OF WHAT CHILDREN ARE LIKE--
THAT THERE IS
A SENTIENT BEING THERE,
THERE IS A PERSONALITY IN THERE,
THERE IS A PERSON IN THERE.
OUR JOB IS NOT TO MOLD THEM,
'CAUSE IT'S IN THERE,
BUT JUST HELP THEM
DISCOVER WHO IT IS.
BECAUSE THAT COMPLETES
THE CYCLE, DOESN'T IT?
- YEAH, YEAH.
- "YOU DID IT YOURSELF."
BECAUSE WHEN A PARENT SAYS,
"I LOVE IT,"
AND THE KID SAYS,
"WHAT? I DON'T LIKE IT.
BOY, MY PARENTS
ARE REALLY STUPID."
NO MATTER WHAT YOUR ANSWER IS,
IT'S THE WRONG ANSWER,
THE RIGHT ANSWER
IS THE QUESTION,
"WHAT DO YOU THINK OF IT?
THAT'S WONDERFUL.
THANK YOU!  THIS IS GREAT.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
MY PLEASURE.
AND WE CAN STOP
YOU FROM GIGGLING
THROUGH THE WHOLE THING.
Brazelton:
NEXT, WE TALK TO PARENTS
ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
Woman:
WE'VE SOLD OUT.
WE HAVE OVER 900 PEOPLE--
Brazelton:
EACH YEAR, WE TRAVEL
ALL OVER AMERICA...
Man:
OUR COMMUNITY IS
SO EXCITED ABOUT THIS.
...TO ANSWER QUESTIONS
FROM THOUSANDS OF PARENTS.
Emcee:
I'D LIKE TO WELCOME
DR. T. BERRY BRAZELTON.
Brazelton:
HERE ARE SOME OF THEM.
A FATHER!
YOU ARE A FATHER?
( laughs )
- I AM A FATHER.
- THATTABOY.
MY QUESTION DEALS WITH--
IF YOU COULD GIVE ANY ADVICE
TO A FATHER ON HOW
HE SHOULD DEAL
WITH HIS DAUGHTER'S QUESTIONS
ABOUT HER DEVELOPMENT.
SHE'S ONLY 3 1/2 NOW,
AND SHE POINTS
TO THE DIFFERENT
ANATOMICAL DIFFERENCES
BETWEEN HER AND MY SON.
OH, I KNOW!
IT'S TERRIBLE, ISN'T IT?
YES, IT IS.
AND WHAT ABOUT LATER ON,
WHEN SHE'S A TEENAGER?
I USED TO GO TO THE TOILET,
AND I'D HEAR
SIX LITTLE FEET
COME PATTERING IN TO SEE.
I DEAL WITH THAT
WHEN I TELL HER THAT
DADDY NEEDS A LITTLE PRIVACY.
WELL, THAT'S AVOIDING IT,
ISN'T IT?
YEAH, YES, IT IS.
( laughs )
BUT I CAN'T AVOID IT WHEN I
CHANGE HER BROTHER'S DIAPERS,
THOUGH.
HER QUESTION IS,
"DADDY, WHAT'S THAT?"
AS SHE POINTS TO--
- TO HIS PEE-PEE?
- HOW DO I HANDLE
THIS SITUATION?
- WHAT DO YOU SAY?
- THAT'S HOW HER BROTHER
DOES PEE-PEE.
THAT'S RIGHT.
YOU'RE GETTIN' THERE.
AND THEN, HER NEXT
QUESTION IS, "BUT--"
"UH, YOU DON'T HAVE ONE."
( laughs )
( laughing )
BOY, THAT IS SEXIST,
ISN'T IT,
IF I EVER HEARD?!
HOW ABOUT SAYING,
"YOURS IS JUST INSIDE,
AND HIS IS OUTSIDE."
OH, OKAY.
( laughs )
OR ELSE, YOU DON'T WANT
TO TALK ABOUT IT.
IT IS A HARD SUBJECT
FOR ME TO SPEAK ABOUT.
IS IT? YEAH.
MEN WEREN'T SUPPOSED TO DEAL
WITH THINGS LIKE THAT.
MAYBE IF YOU CALL ME
A TRADITIONAL DAD,
WELL,
I DON'T KNOW, UM--
IT'S TIME TO THINK ABOUT THAT,
BECAUSE WE WERE RAISED
NOT TO THINK THAT WAS
GONNA BE OUR JOB,
BUT YET, THIS LITTLE
GIRL IS TELLING YOU,
"THIS IS YOUR JOB."
THERE'S A WONDERFUL BOOK
CALLED, IT'S PERFECTLY NORMAL,
BY A WOMAN
NAMED ROBIE HARRIS.
YOU OUGHTA GET THAT.
IT'S A WAY OF TALKING
TO CHILDREN ABOUT THESE THINGS.
THEY CAN SEE IT GRAPHICALLY,
AND YOU CAN, TOO,
WHICH MIGHT HELP.
( laughs )
THE TWO OF YOU
CAN SHARE IT,
AND THE MORE OPEN
YOU CAN BE WITH HER,
THE MORE SHE'LL ASK YOU
AND THE MORE SHE'LL COME
TO YOU WHEN SHE NEEDS IT.
YOU'RE REALLY PREPARING
AT 3 1/2--
A WHOLE LIFETIME
OF CONFIDENTIALITIES,
WHICH I WOULDN'T WANT
TO MISS OUT ON, WOULD YOU?
- NO, I WOULDN'T.
- NO.
GOOD FOR YOU, FOR ASKING THIS.
SHE REALLY WANTS IT FROM YOU.
I DON'T THINK
HER MOMMY WOULD BE ENOUGH.
- OKAY, THANK YOU.
- GREAT.
( audience applauding )
HI, MY NAME IS SARA, AND I HAVE
AN EIGHT-YEAR-OLD DAUGHTER
WHO GETS VERY EMOTIONAL
AND SOMETIMES EVEN CRIES
WHEN SHE'S CONFRONTED WITH
HER SISTER, FOR WHATEVER REASON,
AND SOMETIMES EVEN
WHEN SHE DOESN'T GET HER WAY.
IT'S WHEN WE EXPLAIN
WHY SHE CAN'T DO SOMETHING,
OR WHY IT DOESN'T WORK THAT WAY,
AND IT HAS TO BE THIS WAY--
SHE GETS EMOTIONAL, OVERWHELMED,
AND TEARS COME TO HER EYES,
AND SHE'S GOTTEN TO THE POINT
WHERE SHE EVEN REALIZES IT.
WHAT WORRIES YOU?
WHAT WORRIES ME IS THAT
I'M NOT SURE
IF THIS IS
A HORMONAL ISSUE ALREADY.
BECAUSE OUR 12 YEAR OLD
WENT THROUGH SOMETHING SIMILAR
AT THE AGE OF 11.
AND I'M NOT SURE IF THIS IS
SOMETHING SHE'S GOING THROUGH
AT AN EARLIER AGE.
WHAT WOULD THAT MEAN TO YOU?
TELL ME ABOUT THAT.
SHE'S VERY ACTIVE
IN EVERYTHING SHE DOES.
SHE PUTS A LOT OF EMOTION
TO EVERYTHING.
I'M WONDERING IF,
BECAUSE OF THAT,
ALL OF THAT EMOTION
COMES TO THE SURFACE
WHEN SHE'S TRYING TO EXPLAIN
HERSELF AND CAN'T.
YEAH, BUT THERE'S SOMETHING
DEEPER THAT'S BOTHERING YOU.
IT IS, BECAUSE THE OTHER ONE--
ONLY HAVING TWO DAUGHTERS--
I ONLY HAVE ONE
TO DRAW EXPERIENCE FROM.
- AND YOU CAN'T HELP
BUT COMPARE 'EM, CAN YOU?
- YOU CAN'T, YOU CAN'T.
IT WOULD BE A GOOD IDEA
IF YOU DIDN'T.
IF YOU UNDERSTAND, THIS CHILD
IS DIFFERENT FROM THE OTHER.
BUT NONE OF THAT
IS WORRISOME TO ME.
I'M FASCINATED
WITH YOUR QUESTION
ABOUT WHETHER SHE'S GOING
THROUGH EARLY ADOLESCENCE.
AND THIS BOTHERS YOU?
A LITTLE BIT.
I DON'T KNOW IF IT WOULD
CHANGE HER TOO EARLY.
NOW, 8 IS
MORE LIKE 11, ISN'T IT?
YEAH, SO I'M CONCERNED ABOUT,
MAYBE I SHOULD HANDLE HER
MORE LIKE I SHOULD
HANDLE A 10 YEAR OLD.
INSTEAD OF SAYING,
"LAURA, STOP CRYING,
LET'S JUST TALK
ABOUT THIS NOW,"
INSTEAD OF CUDDLING HER,
WHICH I'M DOING NOW.
I'M HOLDING HER AND SAYING,
"LET'S TALK ABOUT THIS."
THAT SOUNDS SO NICE.
SO, I DON'T KNOW
IF I'M DOING THAT RIGHT,
OR IF I SHOULD-- TOUGH LOVE.
WHY WOULD YOU WANT
TO DO THE OTHER?
THAT'S NOT ME, SO I DON'T KNOW
IF I SHOULD DO THAT.
YOU'VE ALREADY ANSWERED IT.
IT WOULDN'T BE ME, EITHER.
SO, I WOULDN'T DO IT,
AND I THINK SHE WOULDN'T
GET ANYTHING
FROM THAT,
EXCEPT REJECTION.
YOU DON'T WANNA
DO THAT, DO YOU?
- NO, NO.
- YOU DON'T EVEN KNOW
WHY SHE'S DOING IT.
SHE'S GOING THROUGH
SOMETHING IMPORTANT--
MAYBE PHYSIOLOGICAL,
IT MIGHT BE PSYCHOLOGICAL.
BUT THERE'S SOMETHING
GOING ON WITH HER
THAT LET HER REGRESS
TO THESE PERIODS
OF FALLING APART--
I CALL THESE "TOUCH POINTS."
JUST BEFORE
A SPURT IN DEVELOPMENT,
LIKE HER MATURATION,
OR WHATEVER SHE'S FACING
THAT WE DON'T KNOW ABOUT.
I WOULDN'T HESITATE TO DO
JUST WHAT YOU'RE DOING.
JUST PICK HER UP,
AND LOVE HER, AND SAY,
"WE'LL GO
THROUGH THIS TOGETHER."
- ISN'T THAT WHAT YOU'RE SAYING?
- RIGHT, IT IS.
DON'T YOU FEEL BETTER
ABOUT THAT?
- I DO--
- LOOK WHAT YOU'RE DOING
WHEN YOU DO THAT FOR HER.
YOU'RE SAYING, "WE WANNA BE
WITH YOU THROUGH THIS,
WHATEVER YOU'RE
GOING THROUGH,"
THEN WHEN SHE HITS ADOLESCENCE,
YOU'RE THERE WITH HER.
YOU'RE SETTING UP
BUILDING BLOCKS FOR THE FUTURE.
SUPPOSE YOU SHOVED HER OUT
AND SAID, "BE STRONG.
DEAL WITH IT YOURSELF."
WOULDN'T YOU BE GIVING HER
A MESSAGE?
- THAT'S GREAT. WONDERFUL.
- THANK YOU.
FOR TAPES AND
TRANSCRIPTS, CALL...
OR LOG ON AT...
:
BRAZELTON ON PARENTING,
PRESENTED BY
THE PARENTING INSTITUTE
AT pampers.com.
I MUST ADMIT, GIRLS CAN BE
A MYSTERY TO A FATHER.
I HAVE THREE DAUGHTERS,
AND IT WAS MUCH MORE DIFFICULT
UNDERSTANDING THEIR STRUGGLES
THAN IT WAS MY SON'S.
BUT IF WE MAKE THE EFFORT
TO UNDERSTAND THEM,
OUR GIRLS CAN BLOSSOM,
TAKING THE IMPORTANT ROLES
WE'VE TRADITIONALLY GIVEN THEM,
AND ADDING A WHOLE NEW WORLD
OF EXCITING POSSIBILITIES.
( theme music playing )